Final Submission Report


Task - 1 : Outlier Filtering 


The outliers found by univariate analysis of numeric variables in CMO monthly dataset is shown by the following graphs.
  

The values falling in the red region are the outlier.
2000 odd datapoints were removed from the dataset as those were considered as outliers.
The cleaned file is filtered_Monthly_data.csv .










  
The outliers in msprice is hown by the following.
  

No outliers whatsoever was found in the datasets.






Task 2- Detection of seasonality type and deseasonalization of price-


The method adopted was seasonal decomposition of modal prices according to both models and check the autocorrelation function of the residual part after decomposition to determine the nature of seasonality.
Filtered the datasets according to those (apmc-commodity) clusters for which we had data of whole 12 months.
The file Seasonality_type.csv contains all such apmc-commodity clusters according to the nature of seasonality it follows. Here is a peek into that.


  
 


After detecting the nature of seasonality a apmc-crop cluster follows its easy to deseasonalize the price. The same function does the job if only when passed with an argument (deseasonalize = True)
Then we have deseasonalized modal_prices for the dataset.




The file containing this information is Deseasonalized_price.csv 










Task -3 Price comparison with minimum support price and deseasonalized price.


A sample comparison of different prices of aamgaon- paddy(unhusked) is following.
  

Execute the third notebook named Price comparison.ipynb to generate comparison plots for all the clusters where enough data is available.












Task 4 - Flagset of highest price fluctuations-


First took the top 40 (apmc-crop) clusters which showed the most fluctuation. Then exctracted the season and actual price information about these clusters by choosing those price values which fell out of 3 std devs from the mean. Here is a peek to the detailed information. 
  

The file with the whole information is Flagset_highest_fluctuation.csv .